 a'm honored to be with you today for your commencement from one of the finest universities in the world.

[applause]

Truth be told, I never graduated from college and this is the closest I ha've ever gotten into a college graduation. Today, I want tona tell you three stories ofrom my life t. That's ist, no big deal, just three stories. FThe first story is about connecting the dots,. I dropped out of rReed cCollege after the first six months, but then stayed asround as a drop-in for eighteenanother 18 months or so before I really quit. So why did I drop out?

[applause]

It started before I was born. My biological mother was a young unsentwed graduate student and she decided to put me up for adoption s. She felt very strongly that I should be adopted by college graduates, s. So everything was all set for me to be adopted byat birth by a lawyer and his wife. Except that when I popped out, they decided at the last minute that they really wanted a girl. So my parents grew outwho were on thea waiting list got a call in the middle of the night asking w, "We got an unexpected baby boy d. Do you want him?" They said o, "Of course." My biological mother later found out later that my mother had never graduated from college and that my father had never graduated from high school s. She refused to sign the final adoption papers, s. She only relented a few months later when my parents promised that I would go to college, t. This was the start in my life.

And seventeen17 years later, I did go to college. But I naively chose a college that was almost as expensive as Standford a. And all of my workings class parents' savings were being spent on my college tuition a. After six months I couldn't see the value in it. I had no idea of what I wanted to do with my life, and no idea of how college was going to help me figure it out. And here I was spending all the money my parents had saved their entire life, s. So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out all Ookay.So It was pretty scary at the time, but looking back, it was one of the best decisions I ever made.

[laughter]

The minute I dropped out, I could stop taking the required classes that didn't interest me and begin dropping in ion the ones that looked far more interesting. It wasn't all romantic. I didn't have a dorm room so I slept on the floor in friend's' rooms. I returned cCoke bottles for the five cents deposits to buy food with a. And I would walk the seven miles across town every Sunday night to get one good meal a week at the hHare Krishna temple. I loved it a. And much of what I stumbled into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later lon. Let me give you one example r. Reed cCollege at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy best instruction in the country t. Throughout the campus, every poster, every label on every drawer was beautifully hand calligraphed b. Because I had dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes, I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this.

I learnted about daSerif and sSans-s Serif typefaces, about varying the amount of spaces between different letter combinations, about what makes great typography great. It was beautiful, historical, artistical saddly subtle in a way that science can't capture a. And I found it fascinating.n None of this had even a hope of any practical application in my life but ten. But 10 years later when we were designing the first Macintosh computer, it all came back to me a. And we designed it all into the mMac. It was the first computer with beautiful typography. If I' had never dropped in on that single course in college, the mMac wouldn't have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts a. And since wWindows just copied the Mac, it's likely that no personal computer would have them.

[applause]

If I had never dropped out, I would have never dropped in on that calligraphy class. And personal computers might not have the wonderful typography that they do. Of course it was impossible to connecting the dots looking forward when I was in college b. But it was very, very clear looking backwards ten10 years later a. Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward y. You can only connect them looking backwards, s. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future y. You have to trust in something, your gut, destiny, life, karma, whatever, because believing that the dots will connect down the road will give you the confidence to follow your heart even ifwhen it leads you off the well-worn path, and that will make all the difference.

My second story is about love and loss. I was lucky. I found what I loved to do early in life. Woz and I started macApple in my parents' garage when I was twenty w20. We worked hard. A and in ten10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage, into a two billion dollar company with over four thousand4,000 employees, w. We just released our finest creation, the Macintosh a year earlier and I just turned thirty a30. And then I got fired. How can you get fired from a company that you started? Well, as aApple grew, we hired someone who I thought was very talented to run the company with me a. And for the first year or so things went well or so. But then our visions inof the future began to diverge and eventually we had a falling out, w. When we didn't...
